In this video,
we'll introduce you to various correlation
statistical methods. One way to measure the strength of the correlation between continuous numerical
variables is by using a method called
Pearson Correlation. Pearson Correlation method
will give you two values; the correlation coefficient
and the p-value. How do we interpret
these values? For the correlation coefficient, a value close to one implies a large
positive correlation, while a value close to -1 implies a large
negative correlation, and a value close to zero implies no correlation
between the variables. Next, the p-value
will tell us how certain we are about the
correlation that we calculated. For the p-value, a value less than 0.001 gives us a strong certainty about the correlation coefficient
that we calculated, a value between 0.001 and 0.05 gives us
moderate certainty, a value between 0.05 and 0.1 will give us
a weak certainty, and a p-value larger than 0.1 will give us no certainty
of correlation at all. We can say that there
is a strong correlation when the correlation
coefficient is close to one or -1 and the
p-value is less than 0.001. The following plot shows data with different
correlation values. In this example, we want
to look at the correlation between the variables
horsepower and car price. See how easy you can calculate the Pearson Correlation using
the Scipy stats package? We can see that the
correlation coefficient is approximately 0.8 and
this is close to one, so there's a strong
positive correlation. We can also see that the
p-value is very small, much smaller than 0.001, and so we can
conclude that we are certain about the strong
positive correlation. Taking all variables
into account, we can now create a
heat map that indicates the correlation between each of the variables
with one another. The color scheme indicates the Pearson correlation
coefficient, indicating the strength of the correlation
between two variables. We can see a diagonal line
with a dark red color indicating that
all the values on this diagonal are
highly correlated. This makes sense because
when you look closer, the values on the diagonal are the correlation of all
variables with themselves, which will be always one. This correlation
heat map gives us a good overview of how the different variables are
related to one another, and most importantly, how these variables
are related to price.