Welcome to this course
where you accomplish a real world hands on data
engineering Python project. Data engineers are
on the front line of data strategy and planning
for any organization. Data engineering tasks including extraction or data transformation
to a required format and loading it for
further usage are the fundamental
operations on which the entire data science
industry depends. This is one of the
main reasons that data engineering positions
are some of the most sought after jobs
in the world today. In this project-based course, you will assume the role of a professional data engineer to train you in dealing
with real-world data. You will use Python to
retrieve the required data directly from a website using
web scraping techniques, transform the data per
the requirements and save it as a local file
and a table in a database. You will also run
basic queries on a data set table using Python. This course is intended for anyone with basic
programming knowledge, an elementary
understanding of Python, and interested in using it for data engineering
applications. Module 1 introduces
you to extract, transform, and load
operations basics. You will also extract
required information from web pages using web scraping
techniques and API's. You will also access
databases using Python and save the processed information
as a table in a database. In Module 2, you will apply the
knowledge from the previous module to develop a functional ETL pipeline
for acquiring and processing data from a website available in the public domain. With one practice and
one graded project, you will demonstrate your
proficiency in creating ETL pipelines for data
from different web links. You will submit
your project work for grading by your peers. You will create modules,
run unit tests, and package applications using Python in the optional Module 3. You will also learn the
ideal coding practices for Python and run
static code analysis. After completing this course, you'll be able to extract data from multiple sources
by reading data files, web scraping, and using API's, transform data as required, load the process data into a
desired format or database. Create a full ETL pipeline for accessing and processing data derived from public websites. Create Python modules, run unit tests, and
package applications. There's a lot to cover here. To get the most
from this course, make sure to view every video, check your learning
with each quiz, and complete all
the hands on labs. If you have any trouble with
any of the course material, please don't hesitate to contact us in the
discussion forum. Thank you for being part
of our course and welcome.