Welcome to the data visualization
with Python course. The data visualization with Python course is ideal
for professionals with knowledge of Python
programming language who aspire to become data analysts. In this course, you'll learn
how to create meaningful, effective and aesthetically
pleasing data visuals and plots in
Python using Matplotlib. You'll explore advanced
visualization tools that provide various advanced
features and capabilities. In addition, you'll identify different web-based
dashboarding tools available in Python. The last module will
allow you to act as a data analyst to complete
your final lab assignment. The five modules in this
course comprehensively cover the concepts
related to these areas. In module 1, you will learn about
data visualization and best practices for creating
plots and visuals, you will discover the history and architecture of Matplotlib. Furthermore, you'll learn
about basic plotting with Matplotlib and explore the dataset on
Canadian immigration, which you will use
during the course. Lastly, you will analyze data in a DataFrame and generate
line plots using Matplotlib. In module 2, you will create a diverse
range of plots using Matplotlib and the data
visualization library. This module will teach you
about area plots, histograms, bar charts, pie charts, box plots, and scatter plots. You'll also explore the
process of creating these visualization
tools using Matplotlib. In module 3, you'll learn about waffle
charts and word cloud. You will create regression
plots using seaborn, a new visualization
library in Python. In addition, you'll
learn about folium, a data visualization library that visualizes geospacial data. Furthermore, you'll explore the process of
creating maps using folium and superimposing them with markers to make
them interesting. Finally, you'll
learn how to create a choropleth map using folium. In module 4, you'll explore the
benefits of dashboards and identify the different web-based dashboarding tools in Python. You will learn about plotly
and discover how to use plotly graph objects and Plotly
express to create charts, you will gain insight into dash and open source
user interface, Python library and
its two components. Finally, you will clearly understand the callback
function and determine how to connect core and HTML
components using callback. Finally, module 5, primary focus is helping you complete your final
lab assignment. Your objective is to track and report on the performance of domestic flights
operated by US airlines. The objective is to analyze the reporting airlines
performance to improve flight and
customer reliability. After completing this course, you can use different
visualization libraries in Python, namely Matplotlib,
seaborn, and folium, to create expressive
visual representations of your data for
different purposes. You'll also be able to use basic and advanced
visualization tools and identify different
web-based dashboarding tools. There is a lot to cover here. To get the most
from this course, make sure to view every video, review your knowledge
with each quiz, and complete all
the hands-on labs. If you have any trouble
with the course material, please don't hesitate to contact us and the
discussion forum. Thank you for being
part of our course We look forward to sharing this
valuable knowledge with you