[MUSIC] Hello, and welcome to Dataset
on Immigration to Canada. After watching this video,
you'll be able to understand the data set to be used in this course for
data visualization. Import data with pandas as
a DataFrame in your program. Process data to make it suitable for
plotting. We will use the Population Division of the
United Nations compiled immigration data pertaining to 45 countries, where for
each country, data corresponding to the total number of immigrants from
all world countries are reported. In addition to other metadata pertaining
to the immigrants countries of origin, in this course, we'll focus on Canada and work primarily with the data set involving
immigration to the Great White North. Here is a snapshot of the UN data on
immigration to Canada in the form of an Excel file. The first 20 rows contain textual
data about the UN department and other information. Row 21 contains the labels of the columns. Following that,
each row represents a country along with metadata about the country,
such as the continent it resides in, what region it belongs to, and whether
the region is developing or developed. Then we have the total number of
immigrants from that country for the years 1980 all the way to 2013. Throughout this course,
we will be using pandas for any analysis of the data before
creating visualization tools. So in order to start creating different
types of plots of the data, whether for exploratory analysis or for presentation, we will need to import the data
into a pandas DataFrame. To do that, we will need to import the
pandas library, as well as the openpyxl library, which is required to extract
data from Excel spreadsheets files. Then we will call the pandas function,
read excel. To read the data into a pandas DataFrame,
notice how we're skipping the first 20 rows to read only the data
corresponding to each country. If you want to confirm that you have
imported your data correctly, you can always use the head function to display
the first five rows in the DataFrame. Now, let's process the data frame so that the country name becomes
the index of each row. This should make querying
specific countries easier. Also, let's add an extra column which
represents the total immigration for each country from 1980 to 2013. So, for Afghanistan it's 58,639, and for Albania it's 15,699, and so on. Now let's name our DataFrame df_canada. In this video, you learned that, the
population division of the United Nations compiled immigration data
pertaining to 45 countries. The UN data on immigration
to Canada shows data related to the number
of people who migrated. In order to start creating different
types of plots of the data, you will need to import the data
into a Pandas data frame. [MUSIC]