Welcome to line plots. After watching this video, you'll be able to describe
line plot and its function. Determine when to
use a line plot, create a line plot from
data in the dataset. What is a line plot? As its name suggests, it's a plot that displays
information as a series of data points connected
by straight lines. It is one of the
most basic types of charts and is common
in many fields, not just data science. Let's identify when
to use a line plot. Line plots are useful for visualizing trends and
changes over time, making them a popular choice
for time-series data, such as changes in stock prices, website traffic, or
temperature fluctuations. You can also use a line plot to show relationships between two variables,they can also
be used to compare multiple data series
on one chart. Line plots can also effectively highlight sudden changes
or anomalies in data. As an example, from our dataset, we can generate a
line plot to see the trend of immigrants
from Haiti to Canada. Based on this line plot, we see that there is a
spike of immigration from Haiti to Canada in 2010. We can then research
for justifications of obvious anomalies
or changes from a quick Google search for
major events in Haiti in 2010 one would easily learn about the tragic earthquake
that took place in 2010. Therefore, this influx
of immigration to Canada was mainly due to
that tragic earthquake. Now, how can we generate
this line plot, as we briefly mentioned in an earlier video
with matplotlib, all we have to do is call
the plot function on the pandas data frame or series containing the
data of interest. Before we go over each code. To do that, let's do a quick
recap of our data set. Each row represents
a country and contains data corresponding
to the status of the country in terms
of where it is located geographically and whether it
is developing or developed. Each row contains
numerical figures of annual immigration from
that country to Canada, 1980-2013. Now let's process
the DataFrame so that the country name becomes
the index of each row. This should make querying
specific countries easier. Also, let's add an extra
column which represents the total immigration for
each country, from 1980-2013. For Afghanistan, it's 58,639, for Albania, it's
15,699, and so on. Now, let's name our
DataFrame, df_canada. Now that we know how
our data is stored in the DataFrame df_canada. Let's generate the line plot corresponding to
immigration from Haiti. First, we import matplotlib as MPL and its scripting
interface as PLT. Then we call the
plot function on the row corresponding to Haiti, and we specify kind equals
line to generate a line plot. Then to complete the figure, we give it a title
and label its axis. Finally, we then call the show function to
display the figure. Note that this is the code to generate the line plot using the magic function
%matplotlib with the inline backend.
There you have it. A line plot that depicts
immigration from Haiti to Canada, from1980-2013. In this video, you learned
that a line plot is a plot in the form of a series
of data points connected by
straight-line segments. Line plot is one of
the most basic types of chart and is common
in many fields. You can generate a
line plot by assigning line to kind parameter
in the plot() function