Welcome to Area Plots. After watching this video, you'll be able to: describe
what is an area plot, explain how to create an
area plot using Matplotlib. What is an area plot? An area plot, also known
as an area chart or graph, displays the magnitude
and proportion of multiple variables over
a continuous axis, typically representing time
or another ordered dimension. It's similar to a line plot, but with the area below the
line filled with color to emphasize the cumulative
magnitude of the variables. This kind of graph is
commonly used when trying to compare two
or more quantities. Let's learn how to generate
an area plot with Matplotlib. Before we go over the code on how to generate an area plot, let's do a quick
recap of our dataset. Recall that each row represents a country and contains
metadata about the country, such as it's geographic location and its development status. Each row also contains numerical data of
annual immigration from that country to
Canada from 1980 - 2013. Now let's process the
dataframe so that the country name becomes
the index of each row. This should make retrieving rows pertaining to specific
countries a lot easier. Also, let's add an extra column that represents
the cumulative sum of annual immigration from each
country from 1980 - 2013. For Afghanistan,
it's 58,639 total. For Albania, it's
15,699, and so on. Let's name our dataframe
df_canada. Now that we know how we
have stored our data in the dataframe df_canada. Let's try to generate
area plots for the countries with the highest
immigration to Canada. We can try to find
these countries by sorting our dataframe in descending order of cumulative total
immigration 1980-2013. We use the sort_values function to sort our dataframe
in descending order. Here is the result. It turns out that India
followed by China, then the United Kingdom, the Philippines, and Pakistan, are the top five countries with the highest
immigration to Canada. Can we now go ahead and
generate the area plots using the first five rows of this
dataframe? Not quite yet. First, we need to create
a new dataframe of these five countries only and
exclude the total column. More importantly, to generate the area plots for
these countries, we should plot the years on the horizontal axis and the annual immigration
on the vertical axis. Note that Matplotlib plots
the indices of a dataframe on the horizontal axis and
with the dataframe as shown, Matplotlib plots the countries
on the horizontal axis. To fix this, we need to take the transpose of the dataframe. Let's see how we can do this. After we sort our dataframe in descending order of cumulative
annual immigration, we create a new dataframe
of the top five countries, and we call it ‘df_top5’. We then select only the
columns representing the years 1980 - 2013 in order to exclude the total column before
applying the transpose method. The resulting dataframe is exactly what we want
with five columns, where each column
represents one of the top five countries and
the years being the indices. Now we can go ahead and use the plot function on dataframe, df_top five to generate
the area plots. First, we import Matplotlib as MPL and it's scripting
interface as PLT. Then we call the
plot function on the dataframe df_top5, and we set kind=area to
generate an area plot. Then to complete the figure, we give it a title and label both the axes appropriately. Finally, we then use the show function to
display the figure. Note that here we are generating the area plot using
the inline backend, and there you have it. An area plot that depicts the immigration trend of
the five countries with the highest immigration
to Canada, 1980-2013. Area plots are
particularly effective and depicting data with
a cumulative nature, such as tracking stock
market performance, visualizing population
demographics, or displaying the distribution of resources across
various sectors. In this video, you
learned that: an area plot depicts cumulated totals using numbers or percentages
over time. The process of
creating an area plot involves importing
Matplotlib and calling the plot function
on the dataframe with kind parameter assigned as area. Area plots provide a visually appealing and
intuitive way to showcase the relationship
and proportion of multiple variables
in a single chart.