Welcome to Bar Charts. After watching this video, you'll be able to: describe a bar chart with the
help of an illustration, explore the process of creating a bar chart using Matplotlib. A bar chart is a popular
visualization tool. Unlike a histogram, a bar chart, also known as a bar graph, is a type of plot where
the length of each bar is proportional to the value of
the item that it represents. It's commonly used to
compare the values of a variable at a
given point in time. For example, say we want to visualize in a discrete fashion, how immigration from Iceland
to Canada looked 1980-2013. One to do that is by building a bar chart where
the height of the bar represents the total
immigration from Iceland to Canada in
a particular year. How do we do that
with Matplotlib? From our dataset on
immigration to Canada, we created a dataframe
called df_canada. Having country names
as the index of each row and a column
total represents the cumulative sum of
annual immigration from each country 1980-2013. Let's see how we can use Matplotlib to generate
a bar chart to visualize what immigration from Iceland to Canada
looked like 1980-2013. As usual, we start by importing Matplotlib and it's
scripting interface. Then we use the years variable
to create a new dataframe. Let's name it df_iceland, which includes the
data pertaining to annual immigration from
Iceland to Canada, and excluding the total column. Then we use the plot
function on df_iceland, and we set kind=bar
to generate a bar chart. To complete the figure, we give it a title and
label both of its axes. Finally, we use the
show function to display the figure.
There you have it. A bar chart depicts
immigration from Iceland to Canada 1980-2013. By examining the bar chart, we noticed that
immigration to Canada from Iceland has seen an
increasing trend since 2010. I'm sure the curious
among you are already wondering who the culprit behind this increasing trend is. You can also create a bar
chart with horizontal bars by assigning bar to the kind
parameter of the plot function. Note the use of the
color parameter as you can change the color
of the bar with this. Let's suppose you
want to highlight the years with highest
and lowest number of Icelandic immigrants to Canada between the year 1980 to 1990. You can pass a list of colors to the color parameter
accordingly. Here we have highlighted
the bars for the years 1981 and 1990
with the color red. By assigning the color of your choice to the
edge color parameter, you can change the borderline
color of each bar. In this video, you learned that: a bar chart is
a type of plot where the length of each
bar is proportional to the value of the item
that it represents. You can create a bar
chart using Matplotlib representing the
total immigration from Iceland to Canada.