[MUSIC] Welcome to Pie Charts. After watching this video, you'll be able to describe a pie
chart with the help of an example. Explore the process of creating
a pie chart using Matplotlib. So what is a pie chart? A pie chart is a circular statistical
graphic divided into segments to illustrate numerical proportion. For example, here is a pie chart
of the Canadian federal election. It represents the partywise percentage
of seats won in the House of Commons. Next, let's learn how to create
a pie chart with Matplotlib. Now, let's try to visualize
the continentwise breakdown of immigration to Canada from
our data set df_canada. The first step is to group the data by
continent using the continent column, and we use Pandas for this. We call the Pandas group by function
on df_canada, and we sum the number of immigrants from the countries that
belong to the same continent. Here is the resulting data frame,
and let's name it df_continents. The resulting data frame has six rows,
each representing a continent, and 35 columns representing
the years from 1980 to 2013, plus the cumulative sum of immigration for
each continent. Now, we're ready to start
creating our pie chart. We start as usual by importing
Matplotlib as mpl and its scripting layer,
the pyplot interface, as plt. Then we call the plot function on
total column of the data frame df_continents, and
we set kind = pie to generate a pie chart. Then to complete the figure,
we give it a title. Finally, we use the show
function to display the figure. And there you have it,
a pie chart that depicts each continent's proportion of immigration to
Canada from 1980 to 2013. The explode property of a pie chart in
Matplotlib allows you to offset one or more slices from the center, highlighting
specific sections of the chart. By assigning values to the explode
parameter, you can control the degree of separation and
emphasize particular segments of the pie. As shown in this pie, the continents
where the total is less than 10% are exploded out to be highlighted. A final point about pie charts, there are some strong critics who oppose
using pie charts in any condition. They argue that pie charts do not
display accurate data consistently. When it comes to depicting
data consistently and communicating the point,
bar charts perform significantly better. If you are interested in learning about
the arguments against pie charts, here's a link to a very
interesting article that discusses very clearly
the flaws of pie charts. You can also find
the link under the video. In this video, you learned that a pie
chart is a circular statistical graphic divided into segments to
illustrate numerical proportion. The process of creating a pie chart
involves importing Matplotlib. [MUSIC]