[MUSIC] Welcome to box plots. After watching this video, you'll be able to describe a box plot
with the help of an illustration. Explain how to create box
plots using Matplotlib. So, what is a box plot? A box plot is a way of statistically
representing the distribution of given data through five primary dimensions. Minimum is usually the value
obtained by subtracting 1.5 times the interquartile range, or
IQR, from the first quartile. First quartile is the point 25% of
the way through the sorted data. In other words, a quarter of the data
points are less than this value. Median is the median of the sorted data. The third quartile is the point 75%
of the way through the sorted data. In other words, three quarters of
the data points are less than this value. The maximum is usually the value
obtained by adding the third quartile to 1.5 times the IQR. Finally, box plots also display
outliers as individual dots outside the outer and lower extremes. Let's see how we can create
a box plot with Matplotlib. We first process the data frame,
df_canada, to set the country name as the index and
add a column representing the cumulative sum of annual immigration from
each country from 1980 to 2013. We want to create a box plot to visualize
immigration from Japan to Canada. As with the other tools we've learned, we start by importing Matplotlib as
MPL and the Pyplot interface as PLT. Then we create a new dataframe
in the data about Japan and we exclude the total column
using the years variable. Then we transpose the resulting dataframe
in the correct format to create the box plot. Lets name this new dataframe df_japan. Following that,
we call the plot function on df_japan and set a kind=box to generate a box plot. Then we complete the figure,
we give it a title and label the vertical axis appropriately. Finally, we use the show
function to display the figure. And there you have it, a box plot
that provides a good distribution of Japanese immigration to
Canada from 1980 to 2013. From this plot, we can verify that
there are no outliers in this data. Also, we can see that the median
is closer to the top, indicating more data
concentration in the upper half. In this video you learned that a box plot
is a way of statistically representing given data distribution
through five main dimensions. The five main dimensions are minimum,
first quartile, median, third quartile, and maximum. You can create a box
plot using Matplotlib. [MUSIC]