Welcome to Scatter Plots. After watching this video, you'll be able to: describe what is a scatter plot with
the help of an example, explore the scatter
plot creation process using Matplotlib. What is a scatter plot? A scatter plot is a type of
plot that displays values pertaining to typically two
variables against each other. Usually, it's a
dependent variable that is plotted against an independent variable
to determine if any correlation between
the two variables exist. For example, here's
a scatter plot of income versus education. And by looking at
the plotted data, one can conclude that an individual with more
years of education is likely to earn a
higher income than an individual with fewer
years of education. How can we create a scatter
plot with matplotlib? We are considering
dataframe df_canada, which has country names set as an index and one
column is total, which represents the
cumulative sum of annual immigration from each
country from 1980-2013. Let's say we want to
create a scatter plot of the total annual immigration
to Canada from 1980-2013. To be able to do that, we first need to create a new dataframe that
shows each year and the corresponding total
number of immigrants from all countries worldwide
as shown here. Let's name this new
dataframe as df_total. Then we proceed as usual, we import matplotlib as mpl
and its scripting layer, the pyplot interface as plt. We use the plot function
on the dataframe df_total, and we set kind=scatter to generate
a scatter plot. Unlike the other data
visualization tools, we're only passing in the kind parameter was
enough to generate the plot. With scatter plots, we also need to pass the
variable, which is on the horizontal axis as
the x parameter and the variable that is on the vertical axis
as the y parameter. In this case, we're
passing column year as the x parameter and column
total as the y parameter. Then to complete the figure, we give it a title and label
its axes appropriately. Finally, we use the show
function to display the figure. There you have it.
A scatter plot that shows total immigration to Canada from countries all over
the world from 1980-2013. The scatter plot clearly depicts an overall rising trend
of immigration with time. Consider the use of
the color parameter, which we have assigned
a value of dark blue. You may like to pick a color of your choice from the
available color palettes. For instance, see how the
plot is in the color red. You can also use
the s parameter to represent any third
variable if you want to. Here we have included
the total from the African continent
to represent the size of each
marker over the years. And it is evident
that the number of immigrants has increased over these years as the size of the markers in the scatter
plot is increasing. In this video, you learned
That: a scatter plot displays values pertaining to typically two variables
against each other. The process of creating a
scatter plot involves importing matplotlib to visualize
a large set of data.