[MUSIC] Welcome to Waffle Charts and Word Cloud. After watching this video, you'll be able to explore waffle charts
with the help of an illustration. Identify the use cases of waffle charts. Explore word cloud with
the help of an illustration. Identify the use cases of Word Cloud. Waffle charts are a visualization
technique that represent categorical data in the form
of square tiles or cells. These resemble a grid
of equal-sized squares, with each square representing
a specific value or category. The size or color of the squares
indicate the magnitude or proportion of each category. Waffle charts effectively
show the proportion or percentage of different categories
within an overall composition. The grid-like structure of waffle
charts makes it easy to understand and interpret data even for
nontechnical audiences. Let's now explore the areas in
which you can employ waffle charts. You can use waffle charts for
market share analysis, demographic representation, project
progress tracking, budget allocation, survey responses, election results,
and product sales analysis. Let's go through each use case. Visualize market share data,
showing the proportion of companies or products within a specific market. Display demographic data, such as age
groups or ethnicities within a population. Represent completion status of tasks or
milestones, providing a visual overview of progress. Demonstrate allocation of budgetary
resources across categories or departments within an organization. Summarize survey responses, displaying the distribution of
answers to multiple choice questions. Provide a clear visualization
of voting outcomes, representing the distribution of votes for
candidates or parties. And lastly, illustrate product sales
by representing the distribution of sales across categories or regions. Furthermore, by using the pywaffle
library in Python, you can easily create visually appealing waffle charts to
effectively communicate categorical data. You can import Waffle class
from the pywaffle library and provide the values parameter with the data
containing the four continents with the total immigrants from
the Canada immigration data set. The rows and columns parameters
determine the size of the chart grid. Lastly, we customize the chart by adding
a title and positioning the legend. Now that we understand waffle charts,
let's learn about word cloud. Word cloud, also known as tag cloud or
text cloud, is a popular data visualization method to visually
present textual data in an engaging and informative manner. It presents a concise summary of
the textual content by providing a visual overview of the most commonly
used words within a given text or collection of documents. A word cloud is simply a depiction of the
importance of different words in a body of text. It works in a simple way, a word
appears bigger and bolder in the word cloud depending on how many times it
appears in a source of textual data. Here is an example of
a text on recruitment. This cloud shows us that phrases like
recruitment, talent, candidates, and so on stand out in the document. Let's now explore the areas in
which we can employ word cloud. These include social media analysis,
customer feedback analysis, content analysis, market research,
resume or job description analysis. Let's go through each use case. Word cloud helps extract and
visualize popular topics or sentiments from social media
conversations or hashtags. Summarize customer reviews or feedback to
identify recurring themes or sentiments. It assists in analyzing textual content,
such as articles, blogs, or research papers to uncover
prevalent keywords or themes. Word cloud helps analyze survey responses,
interviews, or focus group transcripts
to extract key insights. It also highlights important skills or
keywords in resumes or job descriptions to
assess their relevance. In this video, you learned that waffle
charts are a visualization technique that represent categorical data in
the form of square tiles or cells. There are different areas in
which you can use waffle charts. Word cloud is a popular data
visualization method to visually present textual data in an engaging and
informative manner. You can use word cloud in different
areas to visually present textual data in an engaging and informative manner. [MUSIC]