Welcome to an
introduction to Folium. After watching this video, you'll be able to: describe
Folium and its features, explain what Folium is used for. Folium is a powerful data
visualization library in Python that was built primarily to help people visualize
geospatial data. With Folium, you can create
a map of any location in the world using latitude
and longitude values. You can also create a map
and superimpose markers and clusters on top of the map for interesting
visualizations, you can also create maps
of different styles, such as street level maps, stamen maps, and a
couple of others, which we will look
into in just a moment. Creating a world map with
Folium is straightforward. First, you need to
import Folium and then you call the map
function. That is all. What's interesting
about the maps created by Folium is that
they are interactive, so you can zoom in and out
after the map is rendered, which is a helpful feature. The default map style
is open street map, which shows a straight view of an area when you are
zoomed in and shows the borders of the
world countries when you are zoomed
out all the way. Now, let's create a world
map centered around Canada. To do that, we pass
in Canada's latitude and longitude values using
the location parameter. With Folium, you can set the initial zoom level using
the zoom_start parameter. Use initial because
you can easily change the zoom level after the map is rendered by zooming in or out, you can play with this
parameter to determine the initial zoom level
for different values. Let's set the zoom level for
our map of Canada to four. The result will be a world
map centered around Canada. Another feature of Folium
is that you can create different map styles using
the tiles parameter. Let's create a stamen
toner map of Canada. This style is great
for visualizing and exploring river meanders
and coastal zones. Another style is stamen terrain. Let's create a map of
Canada in stamen terrain. This style is excellent
for visualizing hill shading and natural
vegetation colors. In this video, you
learned that Folium is a data visualization
library in Python that helps people
visualize geospatial data. With Folium, you can create
maps of different styles, such as street level maps, stamen maps, and more. A feature of Folium is
that you can create different map styles using
the tiles parameter.