Welcome to Maps with Markers. After watching this video, you'll be able to explain how Folium can add
markers to a map, and describe how to
generate markers. With Folium you can easily
add markers on the map. Let's first render a world
map centered around Canada. First, import Folium, then create the map object. Remember that the location
parameter specifies the latitude and longitude coordinates of the
center point of the map. The zoom_start sets the initial zoom
level of the map. In this case,
zoom_start = 4 provides a zoomed
out view of Canada. You can display it by simply calling canada_map. Markers play a vital
role in enhancing interactivity and
adding context to maps. They represent specific
locations or points of interest, providing additional
information when clicked. Markers are like
signposts that guide us through the map, highlighting
important elements. Ontario is a Canadian
province that contains about 40% of the
Canadian population. It is considered Canada's
most populous province. Let's add a marker
for Ontario province, one of the largest provinces
in Canada to our map. Using the folium.Marker function, we specify
the location parameter as 51.2538, -85.3232, representing the approximate
coordinates for Ontario. Additionally, we set
the pop-up parameter as Ontario to provide a label
when the marker is clicked. The add_to (canada_map) method
is called on the folium.Marker object to
add the marker for Ontario to the
canada_map. This ensures that the marker is included as part of
the map’s layers and will be displayed when the canada_map
is rendered or saved. Alternatively, we can create the marker using FeatureGroup. Let's go ahead and create a
feature group named Ontario. Now, when a feature group
is created, it is empty, so what's next is to
start creating what is called children and adding
them to the feature group. Let's create a child
in the form of a red circular mark located at the center of the
Ontario province. We specify the location
of the child by passing in its latitude
and longitude values. Once we're done adding
children to the feature group, we add the feature
group to the map. The result is a red circular
mark superimposed on top of the map and added to the center of the
province of Ontario. Now, it would be
helpful if we could label this marker
in order to let other people know what it
represents. To do that, we use the marker function and the pop-up parameter to pass in the text we want to
add to this marker. The result is our marker displays Ontario
when clicked on. In the lab session, we will view a
real-world example and explore the crime rate
in San Francisco. We’ll create a map of
San Francisco and superimposed thousands
of these markers on top of the map. Also, how you can generate marker clusters to make your
map look less congested. This module's lab
session is interesting, so ensure you complete it. Displaying multiple
markers on a map is essential when
using larger maps. Suppose you want to show
multiple markers on the map. How can you do
that? It's simple. Create a list of
all the locations, then pass this list to
the marker function, adding an underscore to
function through a loop and your map with
multiple markers will be ready for display. When creating code to display
multiple markers on a map, you can call the
MarkerCluster object add an underscore to the function
and pass your map here. It's the same as creating
a list of locations. Then pass this list to the marker function
through the loop. But this time, instead of map, use marker_cluster
to add the underscore to functions and your map with multiple markers
will be displayed. The markers within the marker_cluster
will be intelligently grouped based on their proximity when
the map is displayed. This clustering feature enhances
the visual presentation by preventing overcrowding and ensuring a clear representation, primarily when numerous
markers are close. In this video, you
learned that with Folium, you can easily add
markers on maps. The location parameter
specifies the latitude and longitude coordinates of
the center point of the map. Markers play a vital
role in enhancing interactivity and adding
context to maps. The folium.Marker function specifies
location parameters. The pop-up parameter provides
a label upon being clicked. Markers can be created
using feature group.