[MUSIC] Welcome to Choropleth Maps. After watching this video, you'll be
able to: describe choropleth maps, explain what are the uses for
choropleth maps. Most of you have seen maps like this. These are what we call choropleth maps. So what is a choropleth map? A choropleth map is a thematic map in
which areas are shaded or patterned in proportion to the measurement of the
statistical variable displayed on the map. Such as population density or
per capita income. The higher the measurement,
the darker the color. So the map to the left is a choropleth
world map showing the infant mortality rate per 1000 births. The darker the color,
the higher the infant mortality rate. According to the map, African countries
have very high infant mortality rates, with some reporting a rate
higher than 160 per 1000 births. Similarly, the map on the right
is a choropleth map of the US showing population per
square mile by state. Again, the darker the color,
the higher the population. According to the map, states in
the eastern part of the US tend to be more populous than states in the western part,
with California being an exception. Folium is a Python library used for
creating interactive maps and visualizations. It provides a simple and intuitive
way to generate maps using data from various sources, including GeoJSON,
Pandas DataFrames, and NumPy arrays. To create a choropleth map
of a region of interest, folium requires a GeoJSON file that
includes geospatial data of the region. For a choropleth map of the world,
we would need a GeoJSON file that lists each country and any geospatial data
to define its borders and boundaries. Here's an example of what a GeoJSON
file would include about each country. The example here pertains
to the country Brunei. As you can see, the file consists
of its name, ID, geometry, shape, and coordinates that define
its borders and boundaries. So let's see how we can create
a choropleth map of the world showing immigration to Canada. Before creating the map's code,
let's quickly recap our data set. Recall that each row represents a country
and contains metadata about it, such as where it is located geographically
and whether it's developing or developed. Each row also contains
numerical figures for annual immigration from that country
to Canada from 1980 to 2013, and let's name our data frame df_canada. So now that we know our data is stored
in the data frame df_ canada, let's see how we can generate a choropleth map of
the world showing immigration to Canada. We should be experts now in
creating world maps with Folium. So let's go ahead and create a world map. But this time,
let's use the Mapbox Bright Tileset. The result is a nice world map
displaying the name of every country. Now, let's convert this
map into a choropleth map. We first define a variable
that points to our JSON file. Then we apply the choropleth
function to our world map. We tell it to use the country total
columns in our df_canada data frame and the country names to look up
the geospatial information about each country in the GeoJSON file. The result will be a choropleth map
of Canada showing the intensity of immigration from different
countries worldwide. We explore choropleth maps in more
detail in the lab session, so be sure to complete this
module's lab session. In this video, you learned that a choropleth map is a
thematic map in which areas are shaded or patterned in proportion to the measurement
of the statistical variable. When creating a choropleth map, Folium requires a GeoJSON file that
includes geospatial data of the region. The Mapbox Bright Tileset displays the
name of every country when used on a map. [MUSIC]