Welcome to Introduction to Dash. After watching this video, you'll be able to explain
what Dash is and its uses. Describe what Dash
HTML components are. Dash is an open-source, user
interface Python library for creating reactive
web-based applications. It's both enterprise-ready and a first-class member of
Plotly’s open-source tools. Dash applications are web
servers running Flask and communicating JSON packets
over HTTP requests. Dash’s front end renders
components using React.js. It's easy to build graphical user interfaces
using Dash as it abstracts all
technologies required to make the applications. Dash is declarative
and reactive. It can be rendered
in a web browser and deployed to servers. It provides a simple
reactive decorator for binding code to UI. They are inherently mobile
and cross-platform-ready. Let's say you plan to create an application to answer
business questions. As a first step, you need to determine
the application’s layout, decide which chart to use,
and where to place it. For example, this is called
the layout part of Dash. The second part is to add interactivity to
the application. There are two
components of Dash. First is the core components. We can import the
core components as DCC using this import statement. Next is HTML components. We can import HTML components as HTML using this
import statement. Let's see them one by one. The dash_core_components describe higher-level
interactive components generated with JavaScript, HTML, and CSS through
the React.js library. Some examples of core components
are creating a slider, input area, check
items, and date picker. You can explore other
components using the reference link
at the slide’s end. The dash_HTML_components
library has a component for every HTML tag. You can compose your layout
using Python structures with the Dash Dash HTML Dash
components library. The dash_HTML_components
library provides classes for all HTML tags and the keyword arguments describe the HTML attributes like style, class name, and ID. No knowledge of HTML
or CSS is required, but it can help style
the dashboards. In this video, you
learned that Dash is an open-source user
interface Python library for creating reactive,
web-based applications. It's easy to build graphical user
interfaces using Dash as it abstracts all technologies required to make
the applications. There are two
components of Dash: Core and HTML components. The dash_core_components describe higher-level
interactive components generated with JavaScript, HTML, and CSS through the
React.js library. The dash_HTML_components
library has a component for every HTML tag.